1. Consider Form Objects: A form object manages a single form in your application. It handles validation, potentially authorization, and finally - if you wish - persistence. In this lesson, we'll write an implementation from scratch, and then switch over to reviewing Laravel's form request classes and how they fit into the mix.
2. Consider Use Cases: A use case is nothing more than a description of how a user should interact with a particular part of your system. Traditionally, this description may be written on something as simple as an index card. However, what if we applied this approach to the code, itself? What might that look like?
3. Consider Domain Events: If it makes sense for your application, you might consider leveraging domain events and listeners to construct a complex set of functionality.
4. God Object Cleanup #1: Pass-Through: Any developer who has worked on the same project for a year or more will be well aware of the fact that, if you're not careful, your User class can quickly turn into a monstrous God object. In the next few videos, one tip at a time, we'll review techniques you might implement to clean things up. In this first example, we'll recognize related methods, and extract them to a dedicated object - which we then pass through to from our main User class.
5. God Object Cleanup #2: Traits and Socks: Let's review the next option you have, when cleaning up big, bad God objects: extracting traits. While some developers have knee-jerk reactions to the concept of a trait that will never be used elsewhere, I find it to be a clean and convenient solution. It's akin to cleaning up your room, by placing all the socks in one drawer, and the shirts in another. Admittedly, you didn't design a new closet space, but there's no denying that the room is now cleaner as a result.
6. God Object Cleanup #3: Value Objects: Extracting value objects, when appropriate, can be a useful technique for cleaning up messy classes. Use a simple metric: if you find multiple pieces of behavior that surround a single primitive or value, consider a value object. Please note that developers often have a tendency to "value object all the things," so be careful. Refactor toward value objects, rather than adopting them by default for every possible value.
7. Consider Policies: If you find that your controllers are performing too much authorization logic, you might consider policy objects. This allows you to assign a name to important (possibly complex) authorization logic that can reused anywhere. Or, in other words, if you make five different verifications to determine if a member may be added to a team, why not instead reference an AddTeamMemberPolicy object? Let's review two different ways to accomplish this, first using a simple class, and then leveraging Laravel's built-in policy functionality.
8. Consider Splitting Tasks into Steps: What do you do in the situations where a particular task consists of a dozen different unique steps? Well we've already reviewed a number of options in this series, including use-cases and events; however, another perfectly acceptable route is to extract each step into its own class, and then filter through an array of these bite-sized classes and trigger them. I'll show you how.
9. Consider Strategizing: Tutorials often illustrate the simplest possible path through your codebase to demonstrate a particular concept. But the truth is that, in real life, things can quickly become quite a bit more complicated. For example, imagine that your website allows users to sign up for subscriptions. The only problem is that, based upon the form request data, you'll need to execute this process in multiple ways. Sounds like you're going to have lots of conditionals in your controller, right? Well, maybe there's another option: strategies.
10. Consider Normalizing: You'll frequently find yourself in the position of needing to normalize a particular value. Sure, the value might be in the proper format from the start; but it could also be in the form of a function that you need to trigger. Or maybe, based upon various business rules, you need to first modify the value before continuing on. Well, if you're not careful, your code can get pretty messy, pretty fast. One option you might consider is extracting all of the normalizing-specific code into either its own method, or a different class entirely. In this episode, we'll cycle through a number of refactors that you might consider.
11. Consider View Models: When you find yourself repeating the same view logic over and over, it might be time to extract that code into a reusable method. At first, developers typically reach for the model. However, you may quickly decide that you'd prefer a more dedicated class for this sorts of logic. In such cases, consider creating view presenters - or as some refer to them: view models.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.